Now let's actually add some
navigation into our app.
There are two main types of
navigation on your phone,
there's a bottom navigation and
a stack navigation.
You've definitely seen
both of these before, but
you probably like not been
consciously thinking about it.
So if you open an app,
I'm gonna go to Headspace.
But you can open another app like Twitter,
Instagram, any app, but
I thought Headspace is a nice one.
I like the UI [LAUGH] so notice at
the bottom, this is the bottom navigation.
And most apps have this.
And one thing to note is that as I
navigate between these screens and
the page loads immediately.
This means that actually all the bottom
navigation route pages that you have gets
rendered as soon as you
open your application.
So if you have any, like crazy
data fetching that you're doing,
be mindful of the fact that everything
that gets launched when you
launch the route page,
get launched straight away.
Navigation in site pages is in stacks.
Okay, so this open a full screen one but
let's us look at this one, okay.
So here, okay,
notice that I'm tapping into a page, and
it's opening a new page and
it's giving me this back button.
But if you look at the bottom,
I'm still in the sleep menu.
So it's adding another page
on top of my stack, but
I'm not actually going to
a whole different page.
And another thing to notice is if I know
being in this second page on the stack,
if I go to home, and then back to here,
notice I didn't reset the stack.
I'm still where I left off.
So those are just two things to kind
of notice about native navigation.
Currently, we won't be adding boat
navigation because we don't need it.
We are just going to
have a stack navigator.
So what we wanna do is we wanna have a
page that has a list of color schemes that
you can tap on.
When you tap on them, they will open
a page that lists that color scheme.
All right, so these instructions
are both Export and non-Export.
So let's install the stack navigator.
React Navigation has pretty much,
they've broken all the different
navigators into small libraries.
So you just installed
the bits that you need.
Now, I usually have a screens
directory where I keep all my screens.
So I'm going to do this here.
So I already got components,
and now let's just create
another folder called screens, And
this is where we'll keep all our screens.
Now, we want to create two screens.
So we have a home screen and
a color palette screen.
So let's just go ahead and to that.
Home.js > c=ColorPalette.js,
and for the home screen, let's just add
our default Hello world thing again.
import React, Import a View and
a Text of you and
it Text from react-native.
We create a constant called Home, And
we have it return a View with some Text.
And finally we export the Home
at the end of the file.
So for the color palettes, we actually
already know what we wanna render there.
So we want to render pretty
much this entire page.
So if we go to App.js and we copy
the code that renders our color palette.
So we'll have all of this,
let's gonna do import
React from react, const.
So this export defaulted.
And we'll also need to
add all these imports.
And we'll need to add the colorBox input.
Notice that we're in
a different directory now, so
we'll have to navigate up a directory
in order to go to components.
And finally, I think we can just
copy all the styles as well.
Do the same,
don't forget to import the StyleSheet.
All right,
so now you should have a Home component
that just renders our Hello world.
And the colour palette that
should just has all the code
in from our App.js that
rendered the color palettes.
Now, what we wanna do is
actually while all of this up.
So the first thing we need to do
is we're going to go to App.js and
remove all the code that we
copied away to color palettes.
So we don't need the styles,
we don't need this.
We don't need to colors,
and don't need any of this
So we just have the navigation container.
Next up, let's import both the home and
the color palette screens.
Now, we wanna import
the createStackNavigator
from react-navigation/stack.
And you wanna create a stack.
And this basically creates
kind of like a sandbox of
screens that you can
navigate between in a stack.
And now we're going to use it
inside a navigation container.
So we have a Stack., what's it called?
Navigator.
All right, so this is actually
defining the stack navigator.
And then, we're defining all
the screens in the stack.
So we do Stack.Screen, And
we give it a name and a component.
So name="Home" component.
Let's add another one for
the color palette.
Cool, so now we got a NavigationContainer,
we have a Stack.Navigator and
we have two screens.
Notice that the screen that you add to
the top will be visible by default,
so that will be the root of the stack.
If I made this to top.
Okay, maybe not.
Cool, so now we got a Home and
a ColorPalette and
we'd like to navigate between them.
So what I wanna do is I want this to
say solarized, and if I press on this,
I want that new page to appear.
So let's go to Home.
And in order to add
interactivity into applications,
we need some way for
them to register user taps.
Now, on the web you would have
a button that has an on click, but
on the phone we don't click, we press.
So we have a selection
of touchable components.
I got a list of them here.
There's TouchableOpacity,
TouchableHighlight,
TouchableWithoutFeedback, and
TouchableNativeFeedback.
Most of the time,
you'll be using TouchableOpacity and
TouchableWithoutFeedback.
Basically, TouchableOpacity will
create some opacity while the press is
ongoing in the component
that it's wrapped around.
And TouchableWithoutFeedback has no visual
feedback, but it will register the tap.
So let's go ahead and
use a TouchableOpacity.
The way that the touchable
elements work is that
you basically wrap them around the area
that you want to make touchable.
So let's import this, And
let's just wrap it around the text.
Now on the web, you would have an onClick
and on Native you have an onPress.
And onPress takes a function
of something you wanna do when
the user presses on this.
Now, how do we navigate between screens?
Well, I think you should
definitely get used
to looking at documentation
because I do a lot,
So if we just spec navigation doc's
there's a light mode as well,
if that's more to your liking and, Well,
basically, we use the navigation prop.
So any screen that is inside this
stack navigator that's defined here.
So any screen that you
pass into as a component
also gets this special prop
Boston called navigation.
And navigation has a bunch of
things that unless you do,
you can navigate between screens.
You can reset the navigator states.
You can go back, you can set prompts, etc.
So we're going to use it to
navigate to different screen.
So Home and
this gets passed into navigation.
And, so all we can do,
is here in the onPress,
we can do navigation.navigate.
And then we just pass in the name of
the screen you want to navigate to.
Now, if I press on this,
I've forgot to copy the colors.
So if you're following on with me,
I like I forgot to copy over
the colors property, and
I forgot to import text from React Native.
By the way, this works, that's great.
I'm gonna rename this to Solarized.
Yeah, we've got the basics.
So one of the things to notice is that in
React navigation the default color for
the background is actually not white,
it's kind of this grayish color.
So I usually end up making the color
white, so if I do container
backgroundColor : ' white'.
And we also don't need
the SafeAreaView anymore because,
as you can see,
because we have this header bar already.
And React navigation kind of handles the
safe area for us, which is kind of handy.
And so
we're going to use this [INAUDIBLE].
Cool.
So the thing to note is we use the actual
name of the screen to navigate to it.
So the screen names need to be unique.
So if you look at App.js, we're actually
using this Home or ColorPalette.
So if we rename this name,
we'll have to also rename all
the places where we used to navigate.
Cool.
Well, now we got navigation.
>> What's the difference between
the navigator versus the push method?
>> There push adds the screen to the top
of the stack whereas, I think navigate
is if you use the bottom nav, you could
navigate to a different nav as well.
Cuz I think push would automatically just
add it to the top of the current stack.
Whereas navigate you could use to also
navigate between the bottom navs.
So we don't have a bottom nav at
the moment, so we don't have difference.
>> So that header barred kind of
just came with it magically, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Do you have control
over the way that looks?
>> Yes, so
you have complete control over it.
Yes, okay, so you can pass in
options into the stack screen.
And you can also set this dynamically,
By using the options again,
but you can add basically parameters to
the route and you can use these parameters
data dynamically, which we will
going to do in the next exercise.